Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a mystery and
sci-fi film called "Selfless."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
New York real-estate mogul Damian Hale is
on the top of his world even at his age.
Once dubbed as the "The Man Who Built New
York," his business partners and competitors
look up to him for his wisdom while younger
men strive to be like him.
However, all is not well with him as he starts
to feel his illness catching up to him.
After being diagnosed with terminal cancer,
the doctors have given him a life expectancy
of no longer than six months.
Damian seems to have accepted his fate, but
when a mysterious card from a company called
Phoenix Biogenic, he learns that he can still
extend his life.
When he contacts the organization, he hears
about a process called "shedding," which will
allow him to transfer his consciousness into
a new body.
Dr. Albright, the company's scientist, attests
that the bodies are designed and artificially
grown in the laboratory.
Not entirely convinced by the idea, Damian
leaves Albright's office without making a
decision.
With time slipping from his hands, Damian
decides to visit his estranged daughter Claire,
who heads a non-profit organization in the
city.
He invites her to enjoy a sundae with him,
but she refuses and tells him that she's too
busy.
Knowing that her organization is short on
funds, Damian offers to write her a check.
Claire declines and scolds him for expecting
to solve all problems with his money.
Back in his office, Damian looks up shedding
on the internet and finds a lecture given
by Dr. Francis Jensen, who envisions a future
where the aged and the sick are not limited
by their bodies.
As he watches the video, Damian starts coughing
until he collapses in his chair.
In his nursing home, he calls Dr. Albright
and agrees to go through with shedding.
Albright tells him that he can't get back
to his old life once he gets a new body.
If he comes across someone he once knew, he
must ignore them.
Albright further stresses that Damian's death
needs to be public and suggests that he should
stage it at a restaurant called Commander's
in New Orleans.
Damian prepares for the procedure and heads
to New Orleans, but he stops by a cemetery
to bury a metal box before going to the restaurant.
Damian meets with his business partner Martin
at the restaurant for lunch and orders the
coffee suggested by Albright.
A few moments after drinking the coffee, he
starts feeling drowsy and collapses to the
ground.
He's loaded into an ambulance, but instead
of going straight to the hospital, the driver
takes Damian to Albright's lab.
Upon his arrival, they make sure if all the
metal filing in his teeth has been removed.
Albright discloses that the machine that they'll
use for shedding is a giant magnet, so any
piece of metal can disrupt the process.
Damian and another body are loaded simultaneously
inside the machine.
Once the process is finished, he looks at
the bed next to him and sees his old body
being covered with a sheet.
With his new body, Damian has to undergo training
to learn how to walk, run and swim.
Albright gives him medication to help him
deal with the side effects of shedding.
The scientist warns him that he might suffer
from hallucinations, migraines, and nausea
if he doesn't take the drug.
The organization gives him a new identity
with the name Edward Kidner, who is supposed
to be born on September 20, 1980, in Phoenix,
Arizona.
Albright takes him to a new house but leaves
him with only seven pills for the side effects.
He tells Damian that they have to meet weekly,
arguing that he's still learning to deal with
his new body.
The doctor assures him that his current arrangement
is only temporary, and he will be able to
live where he wants in a few months.
To pass the time, Damian starts playing basketball
with the locals at a court nearby and encounters
Anton, who offers to take him clubbing to
welcome him to the neighborhood.
Damian starts enjoying his new life and meets
with Anton regularly to party.
However, when he forgets to take his medication
for a day, he hallucinates and sees himself
taking part in a military operation.
When his vision continues, he sees images
of a Hispanic woman caring for her child and
a water tower shaped like a pumpkin.
When he asks Albright about the vision, the
doctor dismisses it and tells him that the
hallucinations are his old memories that are
scrambled and fueled by unresolved emotions
in his past.
He surmises that the Latina woman in the hallucination
could have been someone he met on a one-night
stand a long time ago.
Damian tells him that he never mentioned that
the woman was a Latina.
Albright changes the subject and hands him
a ticket to Hawaii for a change of scenery.
He gives him twice as many drugs and assures
him that he will no longer experience hallucinations
as long as he doesn't forget to take them.
Damian starts looking up the water tower on
the internet and finds out that it is located
in St. Louis, Missouri.
Before going to the airport, he stops by the
cemetery to retrieve the box buried there.
At the terminal, he buys a ticket for a flight
to St. Louis to find the water tower and the
woman.
Upon reaching the site, he walks to a house
nearby and knocks on the door.
No one answers the door, so he decides to
go inside.
As he goes through the mail, he learns that
the woman's name is Madeline Bitwell.
As he looks around, Damian is taken aback
upon seeing a picture of himself with Madeline
and her child.
He finds out from the photos that the man
who once lived in his new body had previously
served in the military.
While he's staring at the pictures, Madeline
enters the house with a gun pointed at Damian.
When Damian slowly turns toward Madeline,
she breaks down and cries as she recognizes
him as her supposedly deceased husband, Mark.
While Madeline tries to make sense of the
situation, a man knocks on the door, looking
for Edward Kidner.
When Damian opens it, he sees the man who
drove him to the airport.
Damian is suddenly distracted by another man
grabbing Madeline, allowing the driver to
tackle him and pin him down on the table.
As the driver subdues him, Anton enters the
room and tells Damian how he ended up with
Mark's body.
Anton reveals that Mark had approached Phoenix
Biogenic when the insurance company failed
to cover his daughter's treatment expenses.
Meanwhile, one of Albright's henchmen burns
down Madeline's pickup truck with a flame
thrower.
Later on, Damian tells Anton that he has to
go to the bathroom to take his pills.
The driver follows him to the toilet to make
sure that he doesn't escape.
After taking the medication, Damian attacks
the driver and kills him.
Upon hearing the noise, Anton and another
operative approach the bathroom.
Damian shoots the henchman on the shoulder,
so Anton tries to negotiate with him.
Damian is suddenly startled by an explosion
outside, so Anton takes the opportunity to
disarm him.
The two men struggle to subdue each other
until Damian tackles Anton out of the house.
Damian immediately runs back inside as Anton
shoots at him.
While Damian tries to wake up Madeline, Anton
orders a henchman to torch the place.
As the smoke builds up inside, Damian and
Madeline exit the house through a hatch on
the floor.
Damian shoots the henchman holding the flamethrower
on the leg, causing him to fall and set Anton
ablaze.
As the fire engulfs him, Anton runs towards
a tub of water and submerges himself in it.
Damian kills the other operatives and leaves
the house with Madeline.
On their way to the van, Damian explains that
he made a deal with Phoenix Biogenic to save
her daughter, Anna.
Disappearing was part of the deal because
he had to do certain things that he won't
be able to get away with if he was alive.
After the short discussion, they go to the
school to fetch Anna, who is very excited
to see her father again.
The three check into a motel to spend the
night.
To avoid questions from Madeline, Damian goes
outside and looks up shedding on the internet.
He comes across a link stating that Jensen
had died in a public library.
Damian watches the video of Jensen again and
notices that the scientist has the same mannerism
as Albright when he touches the temples of
his eyeglasses.
After seeing Albright in the same video, he
deduces that Jensen had taken over Albright's
body.
Having lost his medication, Damian starts
hallucinating and remembers when Mark met
with Albright in the lab.
Damian goes back to New Orleans to see Dr.
Jensen's wife, Phyllis, who is suffering from
Alzheimer's disease.
He pretends to be a student of Jensen to find
out how he can access her husband's research,
but she doesn't know where they were stored.
When he learns that Albright visits her each
week, he convinces Phyllis to call him and
ask him to come over.
When Albright arrives, Damian asks him for
more pills at gunpoint.
Albright starts revealing that the medication
not only stops the hallucinations but also
keeps his consciousness intact.
Without it, his mind will fade, and Mark's
consciousness will return.
However, each dose of the pill takes away
parts of Mark's memories, including his military
training and his instincts.
If he continues taking the drug regularly,
Mark will soon be gone for good after a year.
Damian asks Albright to take him back to the
lab, but a henchman manages to disarm him
on their way out of the house.
Damian starts hallucinating again while they're
walking towards the door.
As they get closer to the vehicle, Madeline
approaches them.
A henchman bashes her with the car door, so
Damian breaks free to protect her.
He kills one henchman by snapping his neck.
Another operative tackles him and tries to
strangle him.
Madeline gets hold of a gun and shoots, hitting
the henchman in the temple.
Damian hears the man call him Eddie and notices
the exact necklace that Anton wore on his
neck.
Anton reveals that he went through multiple
sheddings already.
He taunts Madeline, hinting that her husband
is keeping secrets from her.
Anton then tells her to ask Damian if he knows
her birthday.
Damian takes Anton's pills and drives away
with Madeline and Anna.
At a gasoline station, Madeline confronts
Damian to ask if he knows any details about
their life together.
Damian confesses that he had taken over Mark's
body and tells her that her husband is already
dead.
Damian offers to help Madeline and her child,
knowing that Albright and his men will kill
them if they catch up to them.
The three stop by Martin's house to ask for
help in getting out of the country.
Damian tells Martin that he went through shedding
and survived.
Martin, however, refuses to believe until
Damian shows him a deed to the first building
they bought together and tells him what they
did when they celebrated their first successful
deal.
After being convinced that Damian is inhabiting
a new body, Martin prepares a plane for them.
As they wait, Damian teaches Anna how to swim.
After the lesson, she hears a whirring noise
from across the hall and follows it.
Damian and Madeline soon start looking for
Anna after he notices that all the mirrors
in the house are covered.
When they enter a room full of toys, they
see Anna playing with a young boy.
Damian takes Anna and tells Madeline that
the boy is Martin's young son, Tony, but he
died two years ago.
Martin confesses that he had contacted Phoenix
Biogenics when Tony died.
He tells Damian that operatives from Phoenix
are already waiting for them outside his property.
Damian tells Martin that the bodies that Phoenix
uses are not exactly grown from scratch but
were taken from living people.
After learning the truth about shedding, Martin
decides to help Damian create a diversion
so Madeline and Anna can escape.
Martin tells Damian to meet them at a truck
stop, where they'll be waiting for him till
midnight.
Damian drives out of the house and looks around
for any car following him.
Two cars soon emerge and shoot at him.
Further down the road, Anton and another operative
wait for Damian in separate vehicles.
One of the henchmen notices that Damian is
alone in the van, so Anton orders another
driver to check Martin's house.
The two vehicles manage to box Damian in,
so he reverses the van to smash the car behind
him.
However, when he starts driving forward, the
car gets hooked to the rear bumper of his
van.
Meanwhile, Martin drives toward them from
the other direction and starts shooting as
soon as he sees Damian's van.
With a henchman's car still behind him, he
suddenly turns just before he reaches Anton's
car.
Anton hits the other operative's vehicle,
sending it hurtling down the road.
Anton becomes incapacitated after smashing
into a tree.
Outside the house, Madeline and Anna get lured
into the car of a Phoenix operative as Martin
tries to catch up to them.
Damian waits for them at the truck stop, but
only Martin arrives.
Martin tells Damian that he tried to stop
them, but they got into the car before he
could do anything.
Martin confesses that he was the one who sent
the Phoenix Biogenic card to Damian because
he felt like he owed Damian for letting him
be a part of his business.
He gives Damian some pills and reveals that
he was able to reverse engineer it, so they
don't have to depend on Albright anymore.
Damian refrains from taking pills for the
day in the hopes that he will discover the
location of Albright's laboratory in his visions.
He soon learns that the lab is located in
an abandoned warehouse that stores Mardi Gras
floats.
Damian breaks into the lab on his own and
comes across the shedding room, where he sees
Anton and another man laid down on gurneys.
Albright arrives and tells Damian that he
has resurrected Anton three times already,
and he has become more loyal to him each time.
He reveals that Madeline is being prepared
for shedding for another client, and her daughter's
organs will be harvested.
Damian shoots Albright through the glass,
but he soon discovers that it is bulletproof.
As the other guards arrive to subdue Damian,
Albright tells him that he intended to use
the body of a 40-year-old accountant for Anton's
shedding.
But now that Damian is at the lab, he will
use Mark's body instead because his military
training and hard-wired instincts have been
proven useful.
While the guards struggle to restrain Damian,
he puts a bullet casing in his mouth.
After the shedding process, Albright starts
asking questions to test if it was successful.
When asked how many children he has, the man
smirks and says he has none.
He only had pictures of kids that he downloaded
from the internet.
After leaving the shedding room, he asks the
henchmen where they are keeping Madeline and
her daughter.
Damian kills the two guards who were watching
Madeline.
Meanwhile, Albright notices the bullet casing
in the shedding chamber, causing him to worry
that the shedding must have failed.
With guards still after them, Damian, Madeline,
and Anna end up in the viewing room next to
the shedding chambers.
Albright feels confident that Damian wouldn't
kill him because if he does, there will be
no one to provide him with the pills.
Instead, Damian looks around the room for
something he could use to smash the glass
and sees the flamethrower.
Damian starts reading the formula for the
drug to let Albright know that he doesn't
need him anymore.
He then fires up the flamethrower to burn
the bulletproof glass and kill Albright.
Damian sends Madeline and Anna on their way
to the Caribbean.
He then visits Claire's office and gives her
a letter, telling her what he wished he had
done for her while he was still alive.
After leaving the office, he looks back up
and sees Claire through the window smiling
as she reads the letter.
Days later, he wakes up in a room that is
unfamiliar to him.
He sees a laptop on the other side of the
room and clicks the video file on the desktop.
In the video, Damian addresses Mark, informing
him that he was the one who bought his body.
He tells him that he's grateful that the body
has allowed him to live a few months longer.
He says he has stopped taking the pills, and
he has waited days for Mark to regain control
of his own body.
Damian welcomes him back and asks him to take
good care of his wife and daughter.
Mark soon rides a boat on the way to another
island to find Madeline and Anna.
When he arrives, Madeline initially thinks
that he's Damian but soon realizes that he's
Mark when she notices how he's hugging her.
Madeline calls out to Anna, so she could finally
be with his father.